
Deep Analytics Query Filters
As long as Deep Analytics is enabled, Deep Analytics query filters can be used across many Komprise applications:

Deep Analytics: A Deep Analytics Query is a collection of filter settings. Query filters can be combined to create queries to search analyze data. 

Reports (v5.0+): Query filters can be used to narrow the datasets used for reports such as the Orphaned Data Report and the Potential Duplicates Report, as these reports leverage the Global File Index. For more information, see Understanding Komprise Reports.

Plan: Deep Analytics Actions allow you to use Deep Analytics queries in Plan operations to enable tiering, copying, or confining of very specific data sets. For more information, see Komprise Deep Analytics Actions.

Workflows (v5.7+ with Early Access Program): Komprise Smart Data Workflows allow you to define and execute automated processes such as computer vision capabilities, keyword and regex scanning, and PII detection. For more information, see Understanding Smart Data Workflows.

Deep Analytics Query Filters

All text-based queries in Komprise are case-insensitive. 

Data Store: To filter files based on sites, file servers, shares, and directories (v4.10+):

Expand to view the listed sites (if multisite), file servers, and shares and select the required combination.

(Optional) From the Select Protocol drop-down, select the required protocol to analyze data from a particular type of share. You can select, NFS, SMB, or DUAL protocol.

(Optional) Enter a keyword in the Enter Keyword search bar to find shares based on a keyword.

(Optional) Toggle Include Moved data in results to include data already tiered by Komprise within the search results.

(Optional) From the selected view, click the arrow icon to the right of a share to open the Directory Explorer. From this drilldown view you can select directories. You can continue to drill down as far as needed to select or un-select the required directories. 

(Optional) Click the Overview button at any point to view all of the directories that have been selected so far.

(Optional) Click the Copy icon to the left of the breadcrumbs to copy the current breadcrumb path. 

Best practices for the Directory Explorer within the Data Store filter: 

This filter is specific to the selected directory(s) within their selected share(s). Unlike the Directory Path filter, it is NOT a text match across shares.

In cases where either filter is feasible, the Data Store filter is recommended over the Directory Path filter due to better performance and usability 

If a directory checkbox is fully selected, query results will include its immediate contents as well as the contents of its child directories 

If a directory checkbox is partially selected, i.e. some of its children are selected, results will only return the contents of the selected child directories, and NOT the immediate contents of the parent directory

You can click the 'Overview' button to see the full list of sites, file servers, shares, and directories that you have selected.  

Data stores selected with the Data Store filter are supported for use in Plan queries starting in Komprise version 5.5. 

Directory Path: To filter files based on directory path text match:  

Starts With: Directory paths that start with the specified text.

Contains: Directory paths that contain the specified text.

Ends With: Directory paths that end with the specified text.

Equals: Directory paths that are equal to the specified text.

    Best practices for the Directory path filter: 

This filter is designed to find files across the query shares which all contain a specified string within their directory paths. To find files with a specific directory or set of directories, use the Directory Explorer within the Data Store filter instead. 

In cases where either filter is feasible, this filter is recommended over the Directory Path filter due to search performance and ease of use

Example uses:

Use Ends With: Archive to find all files whose immediate parent directory ends with 'Archive', including 'MyArchive' but not 'ArchiveNow'

Use Contains: Archive to find all files whose directory path includes 'Archive', including 'RandomPath/MyArchiveFolder' and 'RandomPath/MyArchiveFolder/MoreFolders'

If you want to find all files residing within a directory as well as in its subdirectories, it is generally recommended to use the 'Data store' filter instead. The exception is if you intend to target the same directory structure across multiple shares.

To achieve this with the Directory Path filter, add a forward slash (“/”) after the directory name in the specified path. For example, if folder1 is at the root of the share and folder12 is inside of it, you can use Starts with: folder1/folder12/ to find all files in folder12 and its subdirectories,

As of Komprise version 4.8.3, "\" is automatically converted to "/" for flexibility between SMB and NFS paths.

To find all files in a specific directory but NOT its sub-directories, do not add a forward slash. For example, Equals: folder1/folder12 will find files in folder12 (if folder1 is at the root of the share) but it will not find files in folder1/folder12/folder123.

File Name:

Use to select the required files using the following filters: Starts With, Contains, Ends With, and Equals.

Last Modified Date: To filter files based on the last modification time, use any of the following options:

More than: To select files that are more than specified days, months, or years old.

Before Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified before the specified date.

After Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified after the specified date.

Last Accessed Date: To filter files based on the time it was last accessed, use any of the following options:

More than: To select files that are more than specified days, months, or years old.

Before Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified before the specified date.

After Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified after the specified date.

Click Add.

Moved Date: To select files based on the time it was moved, use any of the following options: 

More than To select files that are more than specified days, months, or years old.

Before Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified before the specified date.

Between: Select files moved between the specified from and to dates.

After Date: Enter the date in mm/dd/yyyy format to select files modified after the specified date

File Type: Select files based on the type. The system lists different types of files present in the shares. For example, audio, binary, log, image, video, and so on.

File Extension: To select files based on the specified file extension. Select the Include Files with no Extension checkbox to select files that do not have any extension.

File Size: To select files based on size, use any of the following options.

Less than: Selects files that are less than the specified size.

Less than or equal to: Selects files that are less than or equal to the specified size.

Equals: Select files that are equal to the specified size.

Between: Select files based on the specified size range.

Greater than or equal to: Selects files that are greater than or equal to the specified size.

Greater than: Selects files that are greater than the specified size.

Group: Select files belonging to the specified group, based on the GID for NFS or the primary group for SMB. You can use any of the following options. 

Starts With: Select files that start with the specified group name.

Contains: Select files that contain the specified group name.

Ends With: Select files that end with the specified group name.

Equals: Select files that are equal to the specified group name.

Owner: Select files belonging to the specified owner, based on UID:

To select a file created by a specific owner:

Starts With: Select files that start with the specified owner name. 

Contains: Select files that contain the specified owner’s name.

Ends With: Select files that end with the specified owner’s name.

Equals: Select files that are equal to the specified owner’s name.

To select files created by an Undefined Owner select the Undefined Owner field. An example of an undefined owner could be an ex-employee who has left the organization. You can use this filter to analyze the number of files existing in your primary storage that is created by an unidentified owner

Komprise tag: Select files that have already been tagged in Komprise with the specified tag(s).
